tar+ssh for fast file transfer (#2161)
CSCfi/csc-user-guide: docs/data/moving/tar_ssh.md

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Using Tar over SSH to move many files
```

> Linux tools such as `scp` and `rsync` are commonly used to transfer files _to_ and _from_ remote servers.
> However, these tools are not very practical for tasks such as:
> 
> * copying a lot of small files
> * copying big text files or image files in uncompressed formats (such as BMP or TIFF)
> * retain attributes (permissions or user/group IDs) while transferring files
> * not enough disk space to create a compressed archive of files/folder that needs to be transferred
> 
> A simple solution for such tasks is to directly pipe (redirect, `|`) the output of `tar` 
> (linux command for archiving files/folders in a compressed format) through `ssh` 
> (linux command for securing encrypted connection between two hosts over a network) to 
> transfer the compressed archive on another host. 
> 
> The table below lists the most commonly used `tar` command operations and options:
> 
> |Option         |  Role     | Description                                |
> |---------------|-----------|--------------------------------------------|
> |`-c`           | Operation | Creates a new archive                      |
> |`-x`           | Operation | Extract one or more items from an archive  |
> |`-t`           | Operation | Lists an archive's contents                |
> |`-r`           | Operation | Appends files to an existing archive       |
> |`-A`           | Operation | Appends archives to an existing archive    |
> |`-u`           | Operation | Updates archive with new files             |
> |`--delete`     | Operation | Deletes a member from the archive          |
> |`-f`           | Option    | Specifies the file                         |
> |`-v`           | Option    | Verbose mode                               |
> |`-z`           | Option    | Read or write compressed archives in gzip format|
> |`-j`           | Option    | Read or write compressed archives in bzip2 format|
> |`-C`           | Option    | Changes the directory                      |

Reviewer: I'd simplify this part. Maybe it would be enough to focus on that moving many small files is inefficient? Also, we have already documentation about packing and compression tools, so linking to that would probably suffice.
```suggestion
Linux tools such as `scp` and `rsync` are commonly used to transfer files
between a remote server and a local machine. However, these tools are not
very practical for moving many small files.

A simple, much faster solution is to write a (compressed) tar package
containing your data directly to the target system. This is accomplished by
piping the output of `tar` over an `ssh` connection. Writing the archive
directly to the destination helps also to conserve disk space on the source
system.

For general information about tar, see
[Packing and compression tools](../../support/tutorials/env-guide/packing-and-compression-tools.md).
```
